The history App-Assignment 1 Essay



The app that I created is called the History app. This app is about finding out which person do you share the same age with and to make it so exciting and more for special for users. I had to use famous historical figures who have passed away on a specific age to show that this person was at this age when they have passed and that you could have the share the same age as the age that they passed on. The purpose of this app is to show users that their age could be special that you lived as long as this historical figure. It to also educate users about these people who stories would live on for generations. So, if the user doesn’t know that the person who he/she shares the age with they might get interested to know this person and find information about him. This is app cannot tell any age that you share the same age as I will explain further why.



To create the app, I had to start by running the emulator so that my app that I created can run. I started with the designer of the app so that it would be easier for users to see where they could go to and to for user users to be impressed with the layout of the app. In order to do that, firstly I went azure labs, ran my emulator first so that my app can run on the device. I went to Android studio where I created the app opened a new project had to be in empty view activity and named it. I went to activity main section and went to split on the right side and you will see two pages in white and blue. That where I started to create the designer for the app. In order to do the designer, I firstly had to put in the pallete. I started using the image button so it would

 allow me to put my background image that I took from the internet which is displayed on the app and I made the picture larger so it full be displayed full screen. I added other pallets like two buttons and text box. The one button is for clear and other is used to to generate history. In order to put the name for the button I went to text on button and that how I named them generate history and Clear button. Then I had to constraint the buttons for all the sides both sides. I also made my button layout to be larger at the top start and end. For me to be able to display the text I went to edit text and me for text to be green I went to text colour and chose the colour green as displayed on the app. I made my text style to be bold so it would be visible for user to see and read. I made my text size to be 25dp which is more visible. For enter age I used text view and changed the text to be that name and had to constraint it for all sides. I also put a text box at the bottom at the bottom so that my text view text can be seen. The layout is done exactly how its shown on the app. where my

The utilization of GitHub and GitHub action in the app can be in many ways for the app. It Could help my app with collaboration as it will allow my app to be working not just on the computer but on all devices. It would allow my app to have support needed for me make sure that my app will work and it will tell where the errors are in this app. loaded my app in get hub and it helped me to able to get a respitory of which I included a read me essay will be  explaining the how the app was created. It has all my codes and all work loaded there. Saved it to a file which will help me recognize where my app is located at. It can also help me to able to check if the app is working on it not just on a device also on a computer. So to check if it working I put on some codes that would help me to see if it will work because without the codes the app won’t work. I used git hub for my app to be able to edited if I did some coding I can go to it to be able to re edit my app. The codes that are I used that are important are set on button listener to make your for your app to function. To be able to change codes you have to use version control in GitHub. Git hub you could create a simply workflow where you could code your app to be able to function. To commit your files to GitHub I went to git section on android studio and you will see the section called git hub. You will press GitHub and you will see something written send file to git hub. You will press that and you will add a description and it should automatically send it to GitHub and that how I load my project files there. I used git hub for me to able to keep my project save as no one will be able to see it and only I can edit the app that I made but you can also do collaborations but the app that I did was individual so it to be done by myself. I used git hub to be able to track my codes. Git hub action allowed my app to be able to respond to user input. It allowed my app to able to run. It make sure that nothing on the app doesn’t not function. It will would allow my app to be visible for users and displayed well for everyone to see. As I did for the designing for the app to make that the app layout is perfect for users to see and to be able to see where they can able find where they can go to use the app. 

In git hub I could be able get my app to be visible for everyone to see and how I did my my app and what tool did I use for my app to be able to function and codes did I use to make the app function. The colour for the button is purple in the app so that it visible for users to able to and made the text so that it could be readable. The cover that I chose is related to the app topic name for users to understand that this is a history app and it related by using historical figures and not celebrities. The app that I created can only enter from ages 20 to 95 because. So if you try to enter the age below 20 and above 95 it won’t be able to show who share the same age with. 

The app is saved in GitHub to able to send to people to able to view it. This is how I created the app and a further video will show how I created the app and demonstration.  

